docs: "What's new in Svelte" July newsletter (#8853)
sveltejs/svelte: documentation/blog/2023-07-01-whats-new-in-svelte-july-2023.md

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: July 2023"
description: "Svelte 4.0, new website and a tour around the community"
author: Dani Sandoval
authorURL: https://dreamindani.com
---

Svelte 4 is out and folks have been building! There's a bunch of new showcases, libraries and tutorials to share. So let's get right into it...

## What's new in Svelte
The big news this month was the release of Svelte 4.0! You can read all about it in the [Announcing Svelte 4 post](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-4). From performance fixes and developer experience improvements to a brand new site, docs and tutorial... this new release sets the stage for Svelte 5 with minimal breaking changes.

If you're already on Node.js 16, it's possible you won't see any breaking changes in your project. But be sure to read the [migration guide](https://svelte.dev/docs/v4-migration-guide) for all the details.

For a full list of all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/packages/svelte/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit

> No breaking changes or any big new features in SvelteKit this month. But there's lots of awesome bug fixes in the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md)!

Reviewer: We could lead off with what did get done to make it sound more positive
```suggestion
This month there were lots of awesome [bug fixes](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md), so be sure to upgrade to the latest version! There were no breaking changes or new features as work focused on stability.
```

> If you're looking for adapter-specific changes, check out the CHANGELOGs in each of the `adapter` directories in [packages](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/master/packages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking for adapter-specific changes, check out the CHANGELOGs in each of [the `adapter` directories](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/master/packages).
```

  - [2023 June 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B2AOYWs6eko) - SvelteKit 1.20.1, Svelte 4 pre-release, Headless UI libraries
  - [2023 June 9](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OG70PKD0hEU) - Updates, Self-hosting SvelteKit, Passing styles to children
  - [2023 June 16](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GNEbC5K34Po) - Svelte 4 next.1, how to create a hamburger menu, group layouts
  - [2023 June 23](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-qnnbMbmE4) - Svelte 4, Popovers and hover, Real Time requests with SvelteKit
- Svelte Radio
  - [SvelteLab - a Svelte REPL for SvelteKit](https://www.svelteradio.com/episodes/sveltelab-a-svelte-repl-for-sveltekit-with-antonio-and-paolo) with Antonio and Paolo
  - [Svelte Radio Live - Svelte 4 Summer Special](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=72TIVhRtyWE) with Simon and Puru
- [Svelte Society - London June 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkH0aMgeIKw)
- [Using The Svelte Context API With Stores](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dp-7NvLDrK4), [Impossible FLIP Layout Animations With Svelte And GSAP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecP8RwpkiQw) and [Create Beautiful Presentations With Svelte](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67lqa5kTQkA) by Joy of Code

> 

Reviewer 2: A couple other Svelte 4 things to add (the This Dot Media one is tomorrow):

```suggestion
- [PodRocket: Svelte 4](https://podrocket.logrocket.com/svelte-4) with Geoff
- [This Dot Media: Svelte 4 Launch Party](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9gy_leMmcQ) with Simon, Ben, Geoff, and Puru

```

Author: moved it a bit higher in the list. good suggestion!

---
title: "What's new in Svelte: July 2023"
description: "Svelte 4.0, new website and a tour around the community"
author: Dani Sandoval
authorURL: https://dreamindani.com
---

Svelte 4 is out and folks have been building! There's a bunch of new showcases, libraries and tutorials to share. So let's get right into it...

## What's new in Svelte
The big news this month was the release of Svelte 4.0! You can read all about it in the [Announcing Svelte 4 post](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-4). From performance fixes and developer experience improvements to a brand new site, docs and tutorial... this new release sets the stage for Svelte 5 with minimal breaking changes.

If you're already on Node.js 16, it's possible you won't see any breaking changes in your project. But be sure to read the [migration guide](https://svelte.dev/docs/v4-migration-guide) for all the details.

For a full list of all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/packages/svelte/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit

> This month there were lots of awesome [bug fixes](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md), so be sure to upgrade to the latest version! There were no breaking changes or new features as work focused on stability.

Reviewer: just pushed out a new release, so we do have a few new features now

https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md#1210

Reviewer 3: Another blog post will be released today. Good to mention that as well.

---

Svelte 4 is out and folks have been building! There's a bunch of new showcases, libraries and tutorials to share. So let's get right into it...

## What's new in Svelte
The big news this month was the release of Svelte 4.0! You can read all about it in the [Announcing Svelte 4 post](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-4). From performance fixes and developer experience improvements to [a brand new site, docs and tutorial](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-dev-overhaul)... this new release sets the stage for Svelte 5 with minimal breaking changes.

If you're already on Node.js 16, it's possible you won't see any breaking changes in your project. But be sure to read the [migration guide](https://svelte.dev/docs/v4-migration-guide) for all the details.

For a full list of all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/packages/svelte/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit
This month there were lots of awesome [bug fixes](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md), so be sure to upgrade to the latest version! There are also a few new features to mention:

> - The new `event.isSubRequest` boolean allows you to indicate whether this is a call to one of the app's own APIs during SSR (or prerendering) (**1.21.0**, [Docs](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/types#public-types-requestevent), [#10170](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/10170))

Reviewer 4: We changed the wording to be more correct on the PR, I'm updating this sentence accordingly
```suggestion
- The new `event.isSubRequest` boolean indicates whether this is a same-origin fetch request to one of the app's own APIs during a server request (**1.21.0**, [Docs](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/types#public-types-requestevent), [#10170](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/10170))
```

Svelte 4 is out and folks have been building! There's a bunch of new showcases, libraries and tutorials to share. So let's get right into it...

## What's new in Svelte
The big news this month was the release of Svelte 4.0! You can read all about it in the [Announcing Svelte 4 post](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-4). From performance fixes and developer experience improvements to [a brand new site, docs and tutorial](https://svelte.dev/blog/svelte-dev-overhaul)... this new release sets the stage for Svelte 5 with minimal breaking changes.

If you're already on Node.js 16, it's possible you won't see any breaking changes in your project. But be sure to read the [migration guide](https://svelte.dev/docs/v4-migration-guide) for all the details.

For a full list of all the changes to the Svelte compiler, including unreleased changes, check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/packages/svelte/CHANGELOG.md).

## What's new in SvelteKit

> This month there were lots of awesome [bug fixes](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md), so be sure to upgrade to the latest version! No breaking changes to report, but a few features to mention:

Reviewer: there shouldn't be any breaking changes until 2.0, so probably don't need to say no breaking changes every month :smile: 
```suggestion
This month there were lots of awesome [bug fixes](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/master/packages/kit/CHANGELOG.md), so be sure to upgrade to the latest version! There are also a few new features to mention:
```
